### (2015) PROSODIC SMOTHERING IN MACEDONIAN AND KAQCHIKEL ###

Under review at Linguistic Inquiry. With Ryan Bennett and Boris Harizanov.

This paper is concerned with the description and analysis of a so-far unnoticed phenomenon in prosodic phonology, which we dub prosodic smothering. Prosodic smothering arises when the prosodic status of a clitic or affix varies with the presence or absence of some outer morpheme. Beyond motivating the existence of prosodic smothering by way of novel data from two genetically unrelated languages---Macedonian (Slavic, Macedonia) and Kaqchikel (Mayan, Guatemala)---we provide a unified account of the phenomenon based on a principled extension of the theory of prosodic subcategorization (Inkelas 1990, Peperkamp 1997, Chung 2003, Yu 2003, Paster 2006, Bye 2007, among others). In particular, while prosodic subcategorization is usually understood to involve only local, laterally adjacent elements, we show that prosodic smothering naturally emerges in a theory that allows prosodic subcategorization to implicate the vertical dimension---namely the prosodic category that dominates a morpheme. The resulting analysis not only makes sense of the novel data in Macedonian and Kaqchikel, it does so with purely local subcateogrization frames. This would not be possible in a theory that allowed only lateral subcategorization, and so this paper not only introduces prosodic smothering, but removes it as a potential counterexample to the claim that prosodic subcategorization is strictly local.

+ [paper](/resources/papers/prosodic_smothering.pdf)
+ [handout](/resources/papers/CLS_handout_smothering.pdf)
